amp-proj: learning accelerated mobile pages

API’s: learning about api’s (Interacting with browser api’s, web api’s

chart: created a chart using chart.js

encrypt-data-example: figured out how to encrypt and decrypt using crypto-js

front-end-tec-con: (here I’m learning common technologies/concepts used in front-end development(some concepts like closures, callbacks etc) and has front-end api(like sound too)). Also in funky.html, learning how objects can be manipulated. Notifications.html: I’m learning about web notifications. 


mail-feature: how to mail. used this for portfolio

mysqllearn:learning mysql and express. 001mysqlbasic has basic, 002mysqlNodeExpr has crud and retrieving data with ajax, learning how to integrate amazon s3 for audio file storage.
003mysql-amazons3 has notes. 004mysql-oauth has ouath notes

notes: notes on what I read.

Oauth: this covers session, google auth, passport all this for oauth

progressive web: this contains folder with progressive web app experiments

python-node-talk:
learning to make python app with flask and request using pythons module to a news api

a)react-related:
this folder has react related work. Some basic react is in the folder react-relearn(in wdi folder) and vimmvc (in wdi folder) 
a)react-webpage-simple: Have created to-do list. It has samples of events and how to extract value from input field.
b)twitter-api-react-book: here I’m learning from a book but this is incomplete. Twitter api also has some basic input field extraction
c) learn redux: here I’m learning redux architecture
d)react-relearn:  has many branches but focus on the one inside src folder. this teaches axis request.
e) react-from-udemy: taking udemy course


react-chrome-extension: learning chrome extension and related apis like how to store data in chrome storage and chrome notifications, doing an axis request and logic for seeing if object is the same



restful-api-book: learning from the book. nothing much to learn.This also has stuff learnt from professional javascript book. read about different type of apis like browser apis and external apis(platform apis), sorting objects using functions within functions. still reading this book…


your-location: This has the weather api which Im using for location service. This location service is being used for my portfolio site.

